# Capture-mark-recapture (CMR) data

This folder contains example capture-mark-recapture (CMR) data from a wild population of Antarctic toothfish (*Dissostichus mawsoni*) in the Ross Sea.

Antarctic toothfish are large Nototheniids native to the Southern Ocean.  They can grow to be more than 2m in length, weighing over 100kg, and can live for up to 50 years of age.  The exploratory toothfish fishery in the Ross Sea region began in 1997 and is managed by The Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR).  Since then the fishery has increased to about 3000 tonnes per year.  Fishing is restricted to the summer months (December usually until to March), once the ice shelf recedes allowing vessels access to the region.  The Antarctic toothfish tagging programme was initiated in the in the 2001 fishing season by New Zealand vessels involved in the fishery.  In 2004, toothfish tagging was made compulsory for all vessels participating in the fishery.  Currently toothfish are required to be double tagged at a rate of 1 fish per tonne landed.  The tagging programme records information on the date, depth, location, sex, and size of each tagged/recaptured fish.  A small subset of the recaptured fish are aged by reading their otolith.

We identified those fish that had been tagged, recaptured and aged upon recapture.  This yielded 315 individuals of which 166 were female and 149 male. All individuals were originally tagged between 2001 and 2008, and were subsequently recaptured between 2002 and 2013.  These data allowed us to identify the observed length (cm) at first capture *Lobs(t1)* and recapture *Lobs(t1+t2)*. The time at liberty *(t2)* and the measured age of the fish at recapture *(t1+t2)* was used to calculate the age of the fish at tagging *(t1)*.

The code used to link and groom the tag-recapture (`TR.RData`) and age (`AGE.RData`) data sets is located in `examples/case_study/Link_AGE_TR.R`. The data are saved to this directory as two separate files (`ATR_mod.RData` and `ATR_mod_csv`).
